src/posts/2021-04-27-make-raspberry-pi-your-status-screen/index.mdx, before:

---
title: "Make Raspberry Pi display an URL on boot"
date: 2021-04-27
image: ./luke-chesser-JKUTrJ4vK00-unsplash.jpg
tags: ["raspberry pi", "status screen", "dashboard"]
imageAlt: "Photo by @lukechesser on Unsplash"
author: tomfa
status: publish
---

There's often a couple of Raspberry Pi laying around, or an old laptop. Let's make it into a status screen, that'll show any URL on boot.

### Reinstall Raspberry Pi OS or Debian

In case of an old computer, [install debian](https://www.google.com/search?q=how+to+install+debian). In case of Raspberry Pi, install [Raspberry Pi OS](https://www.raspberrypi.org/software/)

**"Do I have to, it already got an OS?"** No you don't, but there's a risk that you'll regreat that you didn't – especially if your Pi or laptop is old.

### Add Firefox

```bash
# Firefox
apt-get install iceweasel -y
```

### Write startup script

Add this script as `/home/pi/startup.sh`.

```
#!/bin/sh

# open build screen url in firefox
iceweasel --kiosk http://url.to.build.screen.com

```

#### Add script to startup

```
chmod 755 /home/pi/startup.sh
mkdir -p .config/lxsession/LXDE-pi
vim .config/lxsession/LXDE-pi
```

This is the boot file, saying what the Po should do on startup.
If you have a public display, where the Pi should be locked down, simply write the following and save.

```bash
@./startup.sh
```

If you want to have the desktop available, and easy access to config things, write the following instead.

```bash
@lxpanel --profile LXDE-pi
@pcmanfm --desktop --profile LXDE-pi
#@xscreensaver -no-splash
point-rpi
@./startup.sh
```

This boots up the desktop too.

### Done!

That's it! You can test it by rebooting :)

If you want to get out of a locked down kiosk-mode, press ctrl + alt + F2 to get a login terminal.

_If you need to login or send key presses to the browser, e.g. typing in a password or similar, 
check out [/build-screen-bootup/ post](/build-screen-bootup/), using xdotools._

Commit message:

posts: add info on screensaver to raspberry pi post

src/posts/2021-04-27-make-raspberry-pi-your-status-screen/index.mdx, after:

---
title: "Make Raspberry Pi display an URL on boot"
date: 2021-04-27
image: ./luke-chesser-JKUTrJ4vK00-unsplash.jpg
tags: ["raspberry pi", "status screen", "dashboard"]
imageAlt: "Photo by @lukechesser on Unsplash"
author: tomfa
status: publish
---

There's often a couple of Raspberry Pi laying around, or an old laptop. Let's make it into a status screen, that'll show any URL on boot.

### Reinstall Raspberry Pi OS or Debian

In case of an old computer, [install debian](https://www.google.com/search?q=how+to+install+debian). In case of Raspberry Pi, install [Raspberry Pi OS](https://www.raspberrypi.org/software/)

**"Do I have to, it already got an OS?"** No you don't, but there's a risk that you'll regreat that you didn't – especially if your Pi or laptop is old.

### Add Firefox

```bash
# Firefox
apt-get install iceweasel -y
```

### Write startup script

Add this script as `/home/pi/startup.sh`.

```
#!/bin/sh

# open build screen url in firefox
iceweasel --kiosk http://url.to.build.screen.com

```

#### Add script to startup

```
chmod 755 /home/pi/startup.sh
mkdir -p .config/lxsession/LXDE-pi
vim .config/lxsession/LXDE-pi
```

This is the boot file, saying what the Po should do on startup.
If you have a public display, where the Pi should be locked down, simply write the following and save.

```bash
@./startup.sh
```

If you want to have the desktop available, and easy access to config things, write the following instead.

```bash
@lxpanel --profile LXDE-pi
@pcmanfm --desktop --profile LXDE-pi
@xset s off
@xset -dpms   # Turns off screensaver  
@xset s noblank
point-rpi
@./startup.sh
```

This boots up the desktop too.

### Done!

That's it! You can test it by rebooting :)

- If you want to get out of a locked down kiosk-mode, press ctrl + alt + F2 to get a login terminal.
- If your screensaver is not turned off, see 

- _If you need to login or send key presses to the browser, e.g. typing in a password or similar, 
check out [/build-screen-bootup/ post](/build-screen-bootup/), using xdotools._
